Angular 2

Angular 2.0 was announced at the ng-Europe conference 22-23. September 2014.[17] The drastic changes in the 2.0 version created considerable controversy among developers.[18] On April 30, 2015, the Angular developers announced that Angular 2 moved from Alpha to Developer Preview.[19] Angular 2 can be downloaded from the official website. Angular 2 moved to Beta in December 2015,[20] and the first release candidate was published in May 2016.[21] The final version was released on September 14, 2016.

Angular 2 is not a version upgrade, but a complete rewrite. The primary differences in Angular 2 over Angular 1 are:[22]

    Mobile development – desktop development is much easier when mobile performance issues are handled first
    Modularity – much core functionality has moved to modules, producing a lighter, faster core
    Modern browsers only – reducing the need for browser compatibility workarounds
    Angular 2 recommends the use of Microsoft's TypeScript language, which introduces the following improvements:
        Class-based Object Oriented Programming
        Static Typing
        Generics
        Lambdas
    TypeScript is a superset of ECMAScript 6, and is backwards compatible with ECMAScript 5 (i.e.: JavaScript). Angular 2 also includes the benefits of ES6:
        Iterators
        For/Of loops
        Python-style generators
        Reflection
    Improved dependency injection – bindings make it possible for dependencies to be named
    Dynamic loading
    Asynchronous template compilation
    Simpler Routing
    Diary.js logging – measures where time is spent, to identify bottlenecks[23]
    Replacing controllers and $scope with components and directives – a component is a directive with a template
    Reactive programming support using RxJS





The second version of the AngularJS web framework. Angular 2 takes a web component-based approach to building powerful applications for the web. It is used along with TypeScript which provides support for ECMAScript 5, ECMAScript 6, and ECMAScript 7.

The second version of the AngularJS web framework.

Angular 2.0.0 has released now (15 September 2016).

Features and Benefits

    Mobile First
    Future Ready
    Flexible Development
    Speed and Performance
    Supports server-side pre-rendering
    Simple and Expressive
    Comprehensive Routing
    Animations
    Hierarchical Dependency Injection
    Support for Web Components
    Internationalisation and localisation (i18n) & Accessibility
    More information

Building Blocks of Angular Apps

    Module : A typical module is a cohesive block of code dedicated to a single purpose. A module exports something of value in that code, typically one thing such as a class.
    Component : A component is a building block with component metadata. In TypeScript we'd apply the @Component decorator to attach metadata to the class. This metadata mainly consists of the template or templateUrl, the selector and the attached styling.
    Template : We define a Component's view with its companion template. A template is a form of HTML that tells Angular how to render the Component.
    Metadata : Metadata tells Angular how to process a class.

    Data Binding : Angular supports data binding, a mechanism for coordinating parts of a template with parts of a component. There are four forms of data-binding syntax:
        Interpolation: {{value}}
        Property binding : [property]="value"
        Event Binding : (event)="handler"
        Two-way data binding: [(ngModel)]="property"

    Service : "Service" is a broad category encompassing any value, function or feature that our application needs.
    Directive : A directive is a class with directive metadata. In TypeScript we'd apply the @Directive decorator to attach metadata to the class.
    Dependency Injection : "Dependency Injection" is a way to supply a new instance of a class with the fully-formed dependencies it requires. Most dependencies are services. Angular uses dependency injection to provide new components with the services they need.
    Pipes : Pipes are used to transform values from one form to another. Angular offers many built-in pipes. Also you can create custom pipes too.

Latest Version

2.2.0 (Novemeber 14th 2016)
Browser Support

    Latest versions of Chrome, Edge, Firefox, IE and Safari
    Tested for older browsers including IE9+ and Android 4.1+
